The models today are good at adding features.
They're not necessarily good about figuring out what to cut out of the product.
You can get it to go zero, not it's zero to one, but zero to end pretty quickly over the matter of hours.
It's made a lot of decisions along the way.
And some of the sort of intuitions you've built about what are the right things to put in there,
I think you build over time.
I feel like that is the art and science of software design in 2026.
Work moves fast and in the age of AI, the pressure isn't just to move faster.
It's to make sure that what you send actually sounds like you.
From emails to proposals to stakeholder updates, generic and rush just doesn't cut it.
If you've ever stared at a blank page knowing exactly what you want to say,
but not how to start, Grammarly fixes that.
Grammarly gives you one place to think, write and finish your work.
Write where you already write.
Most AI tools either take over or stay out of the way.
Grammarly does neither.
It helps you break the blank page, adjust your tone,
so a message lands right for the specific person reading it,
and works seamlessly across more than 500,000 apps and sites that you're already using.
It's loaded with agents built for every step of your process.
And 90% of professionals say it saved them time.
93% say it helps them get more done.
This is AI that works with you, not over you.
In a world of generic AI, don't sound like everyone else.
With Grammarly, you never will.
Download Grammarly for free at Grammarly.com.
That's Grammarly.com.
Mike, welcome to the show.
Great to be here.
Thanks for having me on.
Great to have you.
I'm super excited.
For people who don't know, you are the co-founder of Instagram
and now you are at Anthropic and Anthropic Labs.
I've admired your work from afar, both at Anthropic and at Instagram,
for a really long time.
And you're obviously at the forefront of building products in AI.
So thank you for coming on.
Absolutely.
Where should we start?
Like, what we were talking about just now in the pre-production is
what has gotten easier and what has gotten harder or maybe stayed the same in product
building as the underlying substrate or the process by which we build products
has changed completely.
Tell me about your experience now versus earlier in Anthropic versus Instagram
and how you think things are changing?
Yeah, I was doing the thought exercise a couple of weeks ago.
The Instagram story, we had another product called Bourbon.
We worked on that for almost a year.
It wasn't working.
We pivoted.
We basically spent three months building what became Instagram,
launched it, and then scaled it.
So I was asking the question, what is now trivial and what was actually inherent in
that building process that doesn't get easier?
That year, we probably could have hit some of the dead ends.
We had eventually hit sooner, but there was value in getting there too.
We overcomplicated the product so that we then had to simplify it.
I find even the models today are good at adding features.
They're not necessarily good about figuring out what to cut out of the product.
And that took a lot of just hitting actual real-world usage.
And there was something about the process of incrementally adding things right now.
I mean, today, especially some of the stuff we're building in labs,
you can get it to go 0, not just 0 to 1, but 0 to n pretty quickly over the matter of hours.
But it's made a lot of decisions along the way.
And yeah, you can ask it to follow up with you and then do input.
But some of the intuitions you build about what are the right things to put in there,
I think you build over time.
And so I've been reflecting, there haven't been a lot of breakout consumer products
even in the age of accelerated AI building.
And I think part of it is because it just still takes time to hone your view
about what sort of intervention you want to make on the world and then build from there.
Now, the actual building part, once you know what to build is, of course, so much easier.
I had Claude basically rebuild Bourbon.
It took about two hours.
It was feature complete.
It added filters, which Bourbon didn't have.
We added those for Instagram.
But I think it knew the eventual future of the products that decided to build that in.
So I think that part feels really different.
But I think there's also, I remember there was a week where Kevin went off
and built all the filters for Instagram P1.
I went off and built the rest of the app.
And sitting there, I would stay up till 4 a.m. and then sleep till noon.
That's my natural day-night cycle.
And in that process, you're making so many decisions.
Like, how should location work?
We've got to find a way of accelerating building while still sort of helping people
build intuition of those decisions along the way.
Because otherwise, I think you either just get very generic products that are unlikely to
break out or ones that just don't reflect some deeper intuition that you come to
about your space or your product.
This is great.
I love this.
It's making me think of two things.
One is, I have this little thing in my head that if you grow a tree without it,
like with it being indoors, without it being exposed to wind, it doesn't get as strong.
As, because as it's growing, it needs all these forces pushing it like back and forth
in order to like make it a real tree.
And so if you, if you have it indoors without wind, it, you're going to grow a tree, but
like leans and it gets all, and it's not as strong and it's not, it's not the same thing.
And I think there's something that you're saying here where because we've accelerated
the pace of development so drastically, what would normally be this sort of incremental
thing where you're doing things one at a time and then you're exposing it to users,
you can actually kind of grow an entire tree indoors.
And then you have this like whole thing that you're just like,
it doesn't have the same level of intuition and exposure to experience at each step that,
that creates a great product.
Is that, is that, is that?
I love that.
I, I, I love that metaphor too.
We, you know, when we were starting Instagram, we had this, we were very into like Eric Reis
and Lean Startup and the whole like Yagney, like you ain't going to need it principle.
And I have found, and actually even one of the things I was working on in labs recently,
we way overbuilt for V1 before we even got to early access because you can like,
oh, well, we have this option.
Why not add this one as well?
That's like, that's a PR of work.
And if you get a really good flow and cloud code, you know, you're firing things off,
you're going to lunch, you're coming back, the thing is done.
You're like, great, we added it.
And the thing we realized was we created this sort of matrix of functionality that was actually
quite hard to test and, and keep up with right before launch or even to explain to people,
like they're arriving.
The metaphor is somebody else gave me, which I really like is the difference between sort
of getting episode by episode, getting no characters in a TV show versus imagine like
you're thrown into the final episode and you're like, wait, what are all these things?
And who are all these people?
And like, I already, you know, I'm expected to have all of this context.
I think there's the same kind of feeling around like developing something over time.
But the tree metaphor, I think sticks too as well.
And so like showing somebody the fully formed tree is also kind of a lot all at once.
And I think there's, there's definitely something there and how do you build product
these days and still keep it simple and not because just because you can doesn't necessarily
mean that it should be in at least the first version.
I'm having the same problem because, you know, I was, I was literally up until 4am
debugging and, and fixing this app that I made, like on the side at every called proof,
which is a agent native collaborative market editor.
So you can like share, share a really quick plan docs and stuff with your team or with
other agents and you have little presence and it's really fun.
And this is like my second or third iteration of the full product end to end,
which is really interesting that you can do now.
But the first couple of iterations, I just found myself because vibe coding is so fun
and so addictive.
I just found myself being like, yeah, like I'll do this and I'll do this and like,
and it just created this monstrosity that wasn't that good, wasn't that good to use.
And I got really inspired by we have another product called monologue,
which I'm not sure if you've run into or not.
But I got really inspired by monologue, which is a really simple speech text that run by
Jim Navin, who he's just so focused on making one simple thing work so well.
And I saw how well that works in this age of just like,
anyone can make a product is like selling that super polish and just super good at what it does.
And so I just basically threw out the product and started over with this very simple,
like it's just a shareable markdown link.
And that then just like started growing virally inside of every,
like everyone started using it all the time.
And then now we launched it and it just blew up.
And so I spent all last night like not sleeping trying to fix it.
Everything like, I'm too old for this shit.
I can't can't be doing this anymore.
Because it just reminded me of like being in my 20s or like being in college and like
hacking on stuff and whatever, which is fun.
But also exhausting.
And so yeah, I've found that I've had to really modify my psychology because so much is possible.
How are you dealing with that?
Yeah, just as a brief aside on that, I remember with Bourbon,
our biggest mistake was adding functionality over time rather than deleting it, right?
And because, oh, you know, eight features doesn't make for good product.
Maybe the ninth one will instead it just made for, you know,
something that felt really complicated.
I mean, I think a couple of things are also like part of how we're dealing with it is
actually being more willing to do rewrites, you know, like classic,
you know, Fred Brooks, Mythical Man Month, like you, you shouldn't rewrite software
because all the things that were imbued and B1, you're going to mess up.
Exactly. And the whole second system syndrome.
And there are still a lot of truth to that.
But one, you know, the models can help you sort of diff and basically see,
did you miss anything that was in that first one?
But second, it's just, it's no longer, you're not like talking about a year-long rewrite
that might have killed the company like, you know, famous like Netscape.
These are like days probably, especially off a given source.
So we've actually had several initiatives, like usually pre-launch, rarely post-launch,
but at least pre-launch, like have built the full blown thing,
realize we've overcomplicated or made some kind of core assumption,
and then like tore it down, done a V2, and then, and then iterate on it from there.
So it doesn't surprise me that that's become sort of part of what you've had to do as well.
But it doesn't feel as painful.
You're not like, oh, the year of building this thing.
It's like, oh, that was last week.
And then I get to do it this week.
And I get to cut out a lot of, a lot of what was there as well.
I think functionality-wise, and how we're dealing with it from a product development standpoint,
I think we are learning to launch earlier.
And it's definitely a balance around, you know, we've grown, we have like a strong enterprise
footprint. People have expectations about like what the initial version is,
but not assuming that we're going to know what every connector or everything that we need to
add to the product is ahead of launch, because people still will absolutely surprise us, right?
We're, we have a strong contingent, we call them amp-fooders because we're
ants that are anthropic.
But only that only gets you so far before you need that real world contact.
Like take co-work, for example.
We'd been noodling on a product of that shape for a long time.
And then once we decided, no, let's get this out.
Let's actually, you know, build the V1 that we think solves the problem the most minimal
way possible and get that out in 10 days was really a good push around.
Yes, there are a hundred things that V1 should or could have had, but it didn't.
And at the same time, it was, it was useful enough to prove something out there.
And I'm not sure developing it for another two months, adding, you know,
50 features would have been more useful.
In fact, we probably would have been building in a, the indoor tree would have been getting
built. And then the second to hit real world use, it's like,
actually nobody wants to do that.
They want to do this, this other piece.
So I think that piece of that, again, there's like the intuitions of the original
lean startup ideas are still here.
It's just, they manifested different timescale in a different way.
I'm really curious to hear how you think about product design and how products should work,
because the, I've been, if anyone in every will tell you the, the, the, the phrase that I use
the most or the word that I use the most about the software build is it has to be agent native.
So agents have to be able to like use it as anything that an agent, a user can do in the,
in the app, the, the agent can do.
There's a couple other like little principles with being agent native,
but I basically stole that from you guys.
Like I think that Claude code is the canonical thing that taught me about how that kind of
product can work so well where it's like, it's an agent, it can do anything on your computer
that you can do.
And it's customizable and flexible and extensible.
So it's easy to start, but it can do all sorts of unexpected things that the designers didn't
really like to think about beforehand.
And I think that that's such a good model for a product development and AI.
And I'm kind of curious, like, this is just sort of what I've cribbed from watching what
you guys do and then like kind of put my own spin on, but how, how do you think about it?
And how do you, how do you talk about making products like that?
Yeah, that's so much in here.
Um, and I love the agent native right up.
Y'all did.
It's like, to me, the canonical like exploration of this.
So thanks for like putting that, those ideas out in a really, in a really clear way.
So I think a few threads to pull on this.
One is a conversation I had with somebody recently where they said, uh, you know, like,
you all, you know, they're a non-technical person.
They're like, you are talking about like agents, all this stuff.
Like they're just like, actually computers just work now.
I always wanted computers to work and they didn't work and now they work.
And it's a sort of funny thing where if you knew the incantations to properly get on the
command line and brew install the thing that like, he's going to do that.
But now Claude can do it for you.
And therefore, like the computer now feels like a tool that is alongside you.
And I think that's that, that core insight is it's more than even just adding power and
functionality to new software.
It's also just unlocking the functionality that always should have been there available
and just felt like extremely hard, um, for people.
So that's like maybe thought number one, thought two is actually comparing our products that
do this well versus not.
I think Claude code does it well.
I think Claude AI still needs to evolve a lot.
So, um, as an example, I was watching somebody use, uh, Claude and they were in a project
and they had built, I think an artifact or a new document.
And they said, great, can you add this to my project knowledge?
And Claude's like, yeah, let me tell you the steps to go add it to my project knowledge.
It's like, no, that should just be a thing that it can do really natively.
And so I think even in that, you see a product that was a 2024 product that has been iterated
on and evolved a lot, but still, I don't think has been baked in from the very beginning,
the idea that every single one of its primitives, it should have knowledge about and the ability
to modify.
And I think that's essential in products these days.
I think Claude code is the 2025 vintage of that.
And I think there's even further aspects of it.
When you see what some of the harnesses that folks are experimenting with,
where they can actually modify the harness itself, that starts getting to the next,
maybe level of that where, you know, it's probably esoteric for most people,
but even unlocking that functionality means that you don't have to, um, sit there and be like,
Oh, I wish it did this a little bit differently.
You know, I wish Gmail worked in the slightly different way and said just asking it to,
and I think that that feels like the big next step.
But, um, even within like Claude code, just teaching Claude code about Claude code was
a really valuable experience.
I was like, this definitely relates.
This is not getting very circular meta, but bear with me.
I loved your, uh, write up on agent native.
And I was like, I want this as a skill.
So whenever I'm prototyping something, it thinks in an agent native way.
So I had to package it up as a skill.
And that whole process was, you know, hey, Claude and Claude code, I, you know,
can you create a skill for this?
It's like, sure, I'm looking at my skill skill.
I'm going to create a skill about it.
I'm going to install it.
I'm like, great.
Is that available now or do I need to reload?
And it said, right, I think you need to restart it.
Let me check.
Yep, you do.
All right, let's go.
And everything was, it has knowledge about itself and that unlocks so much, uh, capability in
there as well, which maybe is like the last thread to pull on.
I think all of these could be hour long conversations, which is.
I think, and one of the things that we're really thinking about in labs is how do you
imbue the software that Claude builds to be more Claude aware and even just Claude agent
native sort of building aware so that it even thinks to build in that way to start with,
because it still won't partially because, uh, decades of software is not that right.
So how do you get new software to have that principle baked in?
That's the thing I was about to ask you about.
Like, so a, I'm super, I, I'm super honored that your youth that you read the write up
and you're using, you made a skill for it.
That's, that's amazing.
And be like, yeah, you're pointing to a real problem that I found is, um, I think actually
Claude models are the best for this.
Like a codex model generally is not as good, um, uh, at building an agent native because
they're, uh, models in general, unless you push them, they think like traditional engineers.
And that's a whole different set of, you know, you want to have guardrails and tests.
You want to make sure that there's like one path the user can go down versus we're creating
this extensible thing that's super flexible.
Um, so yeah, how, how are you, how do you, how do you architect your product to teach
the models and the harness that you teach the models to think and work in this way?
Yeah, I think there's two parts to it.
And one is the more sort of mundane part of the second one.
I think it's the one that's more sort of interesting and developing the first one is
like even just having good patterns and paradigms available to the model while it builds has
been really valuable and finding the right balance of templatized to skillified, right?
And like what that, what that right balance is, um, but having, you know, one of the things
that we like have now is a skill about the Claude API, which sounds super obvious, but
even just having that is really valuable because you would sometimes find, you know,
we'd launch a new model.
It wasn't in the, the models sort of innate knowledge.
And then you'd get into these really funny arguments like, no, no, you made a typo.
It's, it's sonnet four or five.
You're like, no, I, I know it's, no, no, no, no.
So, um, like, um, like having that capability, having like good templatized examples of that
and skills, I think helps.
But then the second part is what's also interesting is that class of software is just
a different type of test.
Like it's much harder to sort of write an end to end functional test around an agent
native product because part of it is that unpredictability.
And so another idea we've been kicking around a lot in labs is like, how do you increase
like the sort of fidelity of the verification?
The other day I had a agent native iOS app that I was working on and I was, I was having
Claude interact with it and Claude was ended up having a conversation with itself in like
a chat feature in the, I was very funny watching Claude talk to Claude because it's like,
someone's pretending to like be what humans are.
This particular one was like a photo time I was doing about like a sort of like work journal
of reflections and the Claude was like, yeah, my boss is really rough on me.
Like I had a hard day.
And then the Claude's like, oh, I'm so sorry to hear that.
And they're just going back and forth.
But you wouldn't have written a unit test for this.
And you know, maybe it would have come up with some other emergent idea as well.
So I think you just have to go much more towards, um, you know, setting up harnesses that are
actually exercising as much of that agent native capability as possible because you
don't exactly know what things are going to, and things are going to end up in a weird
place where Claude's going to try to do something that you wouldn't even think it was going to
do and it might put your app in a new state.
So maybe circling all the way back to still like what's hard, it's like,
having the underlying architecture still be robust to that is really important, right?
It's like it's agent native, but it's also able to flex in a way that you might not have
anticipated, but you've got the right primitives, right?
I feel like that is the art and science of software design in 2026.
That's really interesting.
I totally agree with you.
Yeah, you wanted to have a playground within a safe environment.
That's the only way you can have playground is if it's safe around the edges.
But I think initially we made the playground like way too small and constrained,
and now the models have changed.
And so we can open it up a lot, but we still haven't figured out exactly like,
at least I have not figured out exactly what the lines are.
Yeah, I think that there's so much here.
One thing this is making me think of is I have this idea in the back of my head,
and I'm wondering if you have a way to put this that is more succinct.
It's like the unit of value in products right now is it's like proof of work or proof of use,
where when someone on the team submits a PR to me, I want to see,
not necessarily did all the test pass because I just assumed that it did, but like
send me a loom of you using it or your agent using it so I can tell is this good or not.
Yeah, how are you thinking about that?
Yeah, I think there's probably like three layers to that.
The first one was like, Claude, prove to me that you've exercised this in some way.
You know, I've started doing that in all my promises when it's working on a future.
I'm like, and by the end, before you PR, prove to yourself and then to me that it works as
intended, like find the right way of doing it.
But actually, you have to change your own way you build and scaffold them around saying,
what is the right way to get Claude able to at least test this change succinctly,
rather than what it likes to do. It's like, I read the code. It looks good.
I'm like, you wrote the code. I don't trust you. So you got to really test this thing.
And then the second one is that what you described is like, everything having some
sort of proof around, is it working as intended? And as you intended too,
because Claude is going to make, or any of these models is going to make a lot of decisions
for you. And sometimes you'll have engineers on the team put up a PR and I'm like,
oh, why did you choose to do this versus that? And many times the answer is they didn't choose.
It was just the choice the model made. And maybe it was a reasonable choice.
It was probably a reasonable ish choice, but it was like the optimal choice as it fit into
the paradigm. I feel like that is the, it's not just proof of work, but it's like proof of
thoughtfulness. Like, did you think this through? And I was talking to an engineer yesterday,
and they were like, I was really, I knew you were going to ask me a lot of questions about this.
So I was reviewing what Claude had done so that I wouldn't be like, I'm not sure, you know, and
that's, I don't, I don't push on that for most PRs. But when there's one that's like, oh, I'm
refactoring this system, and there's going to be these new primitives, like great, let's make
sure those are good. And that you've thought through how they interrelate, because it's very
easy to end up otherwise with sort of this sort of tower of assumptions that you're not fully aware
of. I had literally the same experience today because I made proof, totally vibe coded. And
it's growing really fast right now, but it's going down a lot. And so I've been spending the last
12 hours like trying to fix it. And so we have a little swap team internally at every that like
signed up to help me fix it. And so I had to like onboard them. And I was like,
shit, how do I explain how this code works? And so I had to like go back and forth with
the model a bunch to be like, okay, help me to like define these terms, help me like figure out
how I can explain this. So I don't look like a total idiot, because like, yeah, there's,
I understand some of it, but not all of it, definitely not enough to like, the way that I
would use to have to know to know. And it's a whole different thing to be like,
do I need to know that anymore? Is it like, where's the line now? It's hard to hard to tell.
Which maybe gets us something else. And I haven't tried to articulate this to bear with me as I
like, you know, kind of get there, which is, you know, there's products that you use that feel
robust underneath and those ones that you use that are like, it feels like it's one wrong
command or click away from the whole thing, either like freezing or it being slow for us at Instagram,
like we had Instagram view, direct messaging v one, and that like, who knows, you send a message,
it might or may not arrive to the other person, like we'd like, I wrote our own like bespoke
real time system, it was like, you know, fell over a bunch of just, you would not trust that to
send a message that you really needed somebody else to see, it was just a, you know, more of a
social thing. And when we built V2, it was really important that we really hammered like, no, like
if you send a message, we're not probably going to get to what's that level of like, you know,
you can be in the middle of absolutely nowhere with like one bar of edge, and it will probably,
you know, try to still go through, maybe that's not the bar, but still a bar of,
when I load messages, it feels robust, when it's sent, it's really sent, I feel like there's like
a little check. That's like one small example. But I think that that is a thing that we still
need to figure out how to make, you know, feel like an essential part of shipping on anything,
not just that, you know, anthropic, but in general, like, you've built this thing,
does it feel like it's built on sand or does it feel robust? And the agent native part adds
something totally even beyond that, which is, can I push it a little bit? And is that going to
fall over? Or does it feel like, great, I've got a solid trunk. And yeah, you can push me in different
ways. But, you know, your data is safe, and it's underneath here. And it's not just like one deploy
away from completely falling over. So if you're, if that's, if that's the bar, which I agree,
like, that's, that's where you definitely want to get to. How has, how have you changed
who you hire and how your teams are structured, as the models have gotten better? Because for us,
for example, one of our products spiral, we just hired a new GM who's like, I would say he's
lightly technical, but he spikes super high on product and writing sense and spirals are writing
product. And now we can like, hire someone like that where a year ago, we wouldn't have been able
to because the coding models weren't good enough. I'm curious, like, but the downside is it's maybe
the product won't feel quite as robust if there's not someone who's like super technical and all
the details. So like, how do you think about who builds products right now inside of the labs team?
And how that has changed over time and how it will change? Yeah, I love that. I think it's
actually you get pulled in two directions, but they're both important. There's the sort of
primitives and architectural robustness, which I think still need a sort of senior technical
person. I was laughing with somebody that like, I thought, you know, my skills and distributed
systems were like, not going to be useful anymore. But actually, those are the maybe some of the
most useful skills and reasoning about that. And, you know, thinking things through, like, I had a
long debate with Quad last week around, like, whether the system that I was building needed
Redis or not, or could go to just Postgres. And, you know, it was a healthy debate where like,
only because I was grounded and having used a lot of those technologies before.
But then there's the other side of robustness, which is, have you just papered over all the
problems with like fixes to your system prompt and additional instructions? Or have you sort of
architected the actual like set of tools correctly? And so that the latter is as important
and probably where this GM can be really valuable and not okay, like, I am making changes, but
just like you wouldn't patch a sort of flakiness in your distributed system by just being like,
well, just retry it in five seconds. I'm sure it'll work. Like also not doing the same thing with
never ever, you know, all caps use, you know, markdown or whatever the thing that you're trying
to patch is like, they're both actually symptoms of the same thing, which is the underlying piece,
robust or not. And
Claude actually, I'd say this about all the models, but I think Claude could be much better at both.
It's like still a place that still needs a lot of human oversight on the systems part, you know,
it's now able to debug production systems, which is really valuable, but architecting them in the
first place, I feel like we're still benefits from somebody who's really thought these three
things through or has experience. And on the prompting side, you know, if you give it a,
I've seen people get into this dev loop, even internally here, like, here's the prompt, here's
a mistake that the system made iterate on the prompt, its natural tendency is to just add
more things to the prompts. And then eventually just get to this thing that, you know, if you
onboarded a new employee and you gave them 100 instructions on their first day, like always
answer and markdown, except when they'll be like, I'm just going to remember the last thing you told
me, I'm going to like short circuit it. So then rethinking, okay, is these are these actually
two different tools is actually two agents that each have a smaller amount of context that then
you can break apart. So back to your original question, we're hiring for people with, you know,
systems expertise, even within labs, which you think of as like, more zero to one prototypes,
like it's still really valuable. Because again, that robustness matters. And also just who's going
to be, you know, helpful in sorting through, you know, systems permissions and provisioning
and early testing, like that stuff is still, you know, it's still hard even for cloud when it can't
edit the permissions itself, which it can't for good reasons. And then on the on the robustness
side, actually, we've had a lot of success pairing our product teams that are applied AI teams,
our applied AI teams are the teams that are in the field every day helping customers iterate
on their prompts. And we've found that we actually are very we're customer zero now for those,
you know, efforts because we have a lot of products that are, you know, very AI powered. So
how do we bring that expertise in here? Because that expertise does not sit with our software
engineers today, for example, what about the in between of like, okay, it's not the underlying
architecture, it's not the prompts like the UI and the flow, who's doing that?
We that's a great question. Like we have found, you know, some of the people that transferred
into labs were the folks like really were focused on polish on the website, but they were interested
in doing something new and they bring such a different approach as well around. We had the
prototype, it was, it looked generically nice versus Oh, this feels like it's branded and it has
this that's that's part one part two is designers like we've had our designers move much more into
a sort of split designer and build a role not all of them, but most of them and a lot of our,
you know, we actually don't have a lot of full time designers on labs with the ones that we do.
I would say our writing and contributing almost as much code as engineers on those efforts,
because they can and again, paired correctly with the right person, we have found this almost
sort of co-founder model for some of these labs initiatives or you have the designer who had
the original idea maybe and they're pushing on something and then the traditional software
engineer that's going to go and, you know, make, pave the trail so nice behind the designer to make
sure that actually works. Okay, this I want to know about. So what, so tell me about how that
team structure works. So you've got a design, is it actually usually a designer or is it just
anyone that has a product idea that can kind of execute it on it in some way, paired with a real
engineer that actually can like kind of smooth out the rough edges of the trail they're leaving?
It sort of varies, but we found that one thing that was most important, it's sort of our gating
factor in starting up new projects. I'm curious how similar this is to every, is having somebody
with extreme conviction about, if not necessarily that idea, too much conviction on the exact idea
is probably dangerous, but at least in the problem space or the question that they're asking.
And that sort of like co-founder or founder level of, I will break through walls until this thing
is either proven out or dead, but I want to like go either way. When we have labs bets that we've
wound down, often in the post-mortem, we're like, nobody on this team actually really thought this
was like the thing. They were like, yeah, this seems reasonable. Like that's the death knell for
projects, right? So that person can be a designer and a couple of the bets it is. It can also be
sort of a product-minded engineer. It's rarely a pure PM. We actually only have one currently,
one PM for all of labs. We're hiring more and they're sort of playing sort of a wide role,
but yeah, a designer or like a product-oriented founder. And then what we look for is, well,
what skills do we need to complement with that? So because we're doing, it's part of our labs
process, it's actually evaluating every project every two weeks and deciding whether we double
down or whether we sort of release those folks back into the broader labs pool. At any given point,
there is probably somebody who can be pulled onto the project that has that infrastructural
expertise or has worked with that particular internal system or has a lot of deep-prompting
expertise to sort of flow in and out. So I think that's also where the sort of incubator style
space helps because nobody's fixed on a project forever. That's really interesting. Yeah, we do
it slightly different. There's some overlaps, but we do have a slightly different structure where
yeah, we have GMs or they start as entrepreneurs and residents and they become general managers
when they find a product that they want to like work on. And each product just has one person,
like one person that does everything full stack. So design, engineering, marketing,
all that kind of stuff, at least all the basics of that. The shape of that GM used to be like
super technical founder background and now I think has shifted towards at least some
light technical, but like I honestly just care that you can use Clot or Codex or whatever well
and really good product sense, really good taste for the the subject area or the thing
that you're trying to build and evidence that you can build with AI. And then what we have
is a shared resource layer that sort of works a little bit like an agency where we have designers
and we have growth marketers and we have ops people that you can pull in and out for various
initiatives and that seems to work pretty well. So it's like we manage all the internal agencies
and then each GM is out on the edge and they pull in resources as they need it for different
projects. Yeah, but sound similarly like you need somebody for whom that is like the thing and they
are not going to sleep until it is fully working. Yes, exactly. Like and I've been I've been thinking
about okay, when would you hire someone else to work on a product or when would you add someone
else to work on a product? And it's like there's some point at which you can't hold the entire
thing in your head, even if you're the one pushing it forward, you can't hold the entire thing in
your head. And that point used to be much smaller. Now it's much bigger. But there's a certain point
at which like even a small feature turns itself into its own product, you know, when you when you
first make the messaging feature inside of Instagram, it's like, yeah, I can do that in
like a week or whatever. But at some point, that's its own product, it almost needs its own team.
And that I think that line is getting or the number of things you can do with one person is
getting bigger, but it still exists somewhere. But I haven't quite figured out like how to
how to manage that how to tell. No, I love that because there's actually, I think there's the
two parts to that, which is when the idea is still enough to hold into your own head or an
individual person's head, adding more people actually slows the team down. And that's like a
non obvious finding that we found on labs is scaling the teams too quickly actually is a
net negative because they end up spending all this time on coordination, like, oh, you were,
I was going to take, oh, but my cloud could do that. And it just ends up in this sort of piece.
And you also have all those alignment conversations, like it was important in Instagram, there was
just two of us, like it was hard enough to line the two of us, like, and go like get two people on
the same page, right? The second startup I did artifact, you know, Kevin and I were doing that
alone for the first few months, but then we hired a team that was about eight people. It was really
hard because, you know, we hadn't had product market fit yet. And so we were still iterating.
And then you had it up and these things were trying to zoom with eight people talking about
what we're doing next. And you really just want to be able to sit in a room and hash it out. So I
find with these labs initiatives, there's some there's some similar sort of aspect of play,
which is you don't want to pre scale the team to even if the idea is exciting, because then you
just end up in this sort of like meta coordination game. But I like your framing of there is some
point where either, you know, two people really will help go on it together. And there's enough
sort of context and scope where they can hold some other complex piece in their head. And then
there's also the if somebody's been spending on the same idea for two, four weeks,
sometimes injecting some other thinking and that urgency can help too.
Yeah, I think it's especially important in to keep it small in AI, because one of the things
that we deal with all the time, which I'm sure you see to you is every three to six months,
you're, you have to throw out like half your product. And that's really hard
to do if you have to coordinate with a lot of people. But if it's one GM who realizes, oh,
shit, yeah, I got to just like throw out half of this because the models are so much better,
it just makes it much easier to, to like pivot in that way. Is that, do you see that? And like,
how do you deal with that? Like, how do you think about, yes, I know in three months,
the code maybe, or even the whole feature set, I'm going to have to like really rethink about
like it feels like it changes a lot and how you think about software.
Yeah, and being willing to delete code, I think that's something that cloud code team has done
really well as they have sort of deleting features as a sort of imperative of people on the team.
Like if this is not working, let's go and ship that, you know, and it's often when
you've created something else that even if it doesn't entirely supersede, it does enough of what
that other aspect does that actually makes sense to deprecate and then remove that first one.
It does get harder as we get more and more enterprise focused, even with these tools,
because they come to depend on it. I don't ever forget we,
one of the things I did maybe six months into when I was still a chief product officer was we
did a big sort of redesign of cloud AI and we were so proud and we shipped it and we got a
bunch of kudos and then we got this really angry email for some days like, I just recorded 20 hours
of enablement content for my company to do for cloud enterprise and I have to like redo all of it
and we're like, okay, like you're playing at a different release cadence. And of course like
shipping twice a year at one of our conferences is not an option. So we are going to keep moving
quickly, but then we've since like learned to maybe moderate how we roll it out to the enterprise
side a little bit more. But yeah, I think the unshipping piece, then you end up with people
who have built, I'll use an example. So there's a feature in cloud AI called styles is not
widely used, but the people who use it use it a lot. And we've talked at different points like,
yeah, the styles still make sense in the product, you know, there's other ways of accomplishing
the same thing, there's custom instructions and projects now, there's skills now, right? There's
so many other ways of accomplishing that. And I don't know how long styles will end up in the
product, but I know that the last time we talked about removing it ended up being really load
bearing for a few companies like entire use cases, like, oh, we have our house style that the CEO
personally authored and gives to every employee. And that's how they operate. And so finding ways
of doing that is also really interesting. I would hope that in the longer and what we can actually
do is come up with a system of plugins and skills such that they no longer have to live in the core
product. Because I think that is always the hardest to delete something that is the core thing that
you're shipping to everybody. If you don't have the story around, great, you still like that feature,
awesome, like here's how you can keep using it forever in your own and keep iterating on it and
make it your own, but it doesn't have to add complexity to every future person that's adding,
that's signing up for the first time. I'm curious for for labs. And then also maybe just in general,
with your thoughts for startup founders, your enterprise point just it brings up something
that I've been thinking about a lot, which is if you are selling to enterprise right now in AI,
even if the product you have right now is modern, it will be quite outdated quite quickly.
But your customers were going to want the outdated version. But as a startup, that's like a little
bit that feels pretty risky. Because yeah, you're just going to see, I guess you're susceptible
to disruption if you are optimizing for what someone at a gigantic public company will buy
right now. And I think there's a lot of startups in that category where they maybe started two
or three years ago, they have a certain tech stack, they have a certain way of thinking about
here's how we do AI, and then the models are so different. But their customer contracts are for
this like sort of out, it's like, you know, looking at looking at co-pilot or whatever,
it's that's the sort of vibe that happens. Like, how do you think, how do you think about that
yourself and inside of Anthropic? And then how do you think founders should think about that?
Yeah, no, it's such a good question, especially because then a wave will come like being more
agent native, for example. And can you adopt it within your existing paradigm? Does it require
you to throw everything out? And are you just stuck in that like, oh, we kind of adopted it,
we kind of bolted it back on. I think a couple things for us, what we've started doing is
basically treating like this train's going to keep moving and we'll provide enterprise toggles
along the way. But the core of it will continue to evolve. And that's sort of the, the bet and
understanding you're taking working with us. And I think that's been well received because I think
companies have also seen that, you know, things are moving so quickly that the only way they even
get comfortable with a year long commitment, for example, is to believe that it will continue to
evolve along the way. But then we'll provide, you know, co-work is a great example where,
you know, from day one, there was like a way to turn it off for your employees if you didn't
want it, for example. And that's, I think, a reasonably good paradigm. But the other one is,
just as we were talking earlier, like you can actually rethink and sort of rewrite a lot of the
stack is, I think companies should be way more willing to do that. And it, everything is getting
compressed, right? In previous cycles, it was the kind of idea of like having to fire some of your
customers who might have been, you know, really into your product for a different reason than
where you're going sooner. That was on a multi-year kind of time range thing where it was like,
yes, last year's product versus not three months ago's product seems crazy, but I actually think
that's the kind of way you have to think about it, which is you have to be willing to put out the
V3 or the V4 that is a, you know, big rethink of how the existing piece worked. And then maybe
have a transition period and Claude can help probably host both for a little while before
it cuts over, but then also be willing to cut over and say like, yes, this is how we think the
future of this piece of knowledge work or this, you know, AI-powered manufacturing is going to be,
we got to like keep it moving or else to your point, you're just going to, you're either going to
get replaced by the next company that then rethinks it from scratch or yourself replacing it
yourself. And again, it's just the same old story, but now compressed to months.
What's your take on Open Claw?
It has the flavor of something else that I, or just the thing I really like, seeing when
you get people to see something that was already possible, but it's now in a package where people
can actually try it out. And there's some intuition, you know, around how to build on top of that.
Like you started seeing that with, you could already use these models to write code, but it
kind of took like some of these breakout, like low code, you know, the replets and loveables and
VZero's of the world to like kind of put that in there. And it's kind of the, like almost the purest
expression of the, just give the model tools and like let it kind of go forward and do it and then
like go forward and build it. So like, cool, interesting moment for people to realize both
the like potential, but also pitfalls of this of like, Oh, it did this thing. I didn't mean it to,
or, you know, my funniest one was my friend was like, I think my wife is jealous of my Open Claw.
And like, I'm talking too much to it. And it's like, people start developing like deeper,
sort of like very personal relationships by just having a lot of context in these things,
in the access to all these different tools. I think there's the open question of, how do you
then make it easy? And it actually goes back to our conversation around like, what, where do you
draw that like boundary around the way you like cloud operate, right? If V1 was, Hey, like, these
are the three tools you can use only use these tools ever. And then most people's interaction
with those systems was, Hey, can you do this? And, you know, whatever back and being like,
No, sorry, like, can I do it yourself to like Open Claw, which is like pretty like,
the aperture is like wider than I can see. Oh my God, I called me to keep my emails and I didn't
even know it could do that. Yeah, exactly. And it's emerging and it's amazing. And I think,
like probably the most interesting product question, I won't say for all of 2026, because
who knows where we'll be in September, but let's call it between now and like the end of August
is going to be like, what product shape exists between that and, you know, where we are in
most products these days, which is, you know, you can call them CPs, but they're gated and they're
asked for permissions for good reasons. That is still a useful product without being a, you know,
kind of YOLO product. And I think that, you know, we're thinking about that question. I'm sure
the other labs are as well. I'm sure there's a lot of startups thinking about that as well.
I think NVIDIA put out something that was like, they're safe, open, everybody's going after this
question. And I think it's going to be about figuring out what is, what is that, either shift
the paradigm completely, so you can be that open, but with a lot of safeguards, that would be one
approach, or figure out some boundary to draw in which it's still powerful and it's still useful,
but it's not, you know, likely to email every single one of your contacts and, you know, go haywire.
Yeah, I think the other interesting part about it is, like you said, the personal nature of it.
And I know, you know, people have personal relationships with Claude, but there's this
weird thing where if I watch someone else using Claude, I'm like, I feel like I like thought a
stripper liked me or something, you know, it's like, Claude thinks you're smart too, or whatever,
you know, like, and, and so, and there's this thing that happens when you have a Claude
that like my clause R2C2, my girlfriend's clause called Shelly. And there's this thing that happens
where it feels like it's mine, like it's really mine, it has its own name, it has a personality
that sort of like mirrors me in this way that Claude feels like it knows me, and I like Claude,
but it's not mine. How do you think about that? Yeah, I mean, I was having this conversation with
somebody this week around, like, is the right pattern, sort of single point of contact, like,
named, you know, version of, you know, of that, or is it the sort of team of agents that you're
talking to? I think there's a lot to the single person that is maybe the coordinator or the
delegator, and then at that, naturally, because it becomes the, the sort of agent you interact
with the most, you want to imbue it with a name and like a bit more personality, is it reflecting
your, sometimes your personality in the case of, you know, like, all of a sudden, every cliche came
out, it was like, you know, the, you know, the cue or the money penny, or like, you know, whatever
the, or the, you know, Hal, or whatever these different sort of, you know, sci-fi characters,
but I think you do build that sort of, sort of trust and knowledge. I think there's also that
sort of, like, Ikea effect of, like, currently open clause, like, still pretty hard to set up,
so the fact that you went through all of that, and it works, you're like, I did that thing, like,
I, I, I, I, I birthed, you know, Shelley, for example, and now we can, you know, interact with
them as well. But I think that paradigm is really powerful, like, the, I think moving away, like,
even within my Claude Code usage now, one of the things I have, like, strongly prompted in there is,
like, don't do very much work yourself, like, delegate it to subagents, and the reason I like
that is because it means most of the time, the sort of run loop is available for you to talk to,
and I think Open Claw and Pi have, like, a similar architecture of keep the run loop open, and I
think that actually makes it feel much more like somebody that you are talking to versus, like,
a tool that you are delegating to, and occasionally gets blocked for five minutes because it's doing
some really complex task. Yeah. I, I, I totally agree, and I've had similar debates, because we're
also building our, like, everyone, we're building our own little, like, Open Claw one-click Slack
implementation to see if we can, we can do when that feels like ours. And we've had a lot of those
debates about, do you want one agent, do you want many? And one of the patterns that we found, which
is kind of cool, is, so I have an agent, I use the agent for stuff that I do, and then people watch
me use the agent for that, and they know what I'm good at, and they're, and if I'm using the agent
for that stuff, they're going to trust it because they trust me. And it's modified itself in response
to me. So like, I started transferring my trust to it, and then people in the organization start
using it for that. And so you get like this almost shadow org chart, where when everyone,
everyone has a claw, their claw becomes known for and used for the thing that they're specialized
that that per their owner is specialized that in New York. Yeah. I mean, that, that makes a lot of
sense too. And you could think about, you know, there's a lot of interesting research questions,
I think, around that, you know, I think people are experiencing visually for the first time around
privacy. And like, what my agent knows about me versus what it discloses to other people,
but I think there's the positive version of that, which is all the things that it has learned from
all your interactions and how it actually brings it to bear on other problems versus the generic,
like, yes, it's just like everybody else's agent, except, you know, it has a name that's attached
to Dan and it has like maybe some of Dan's, you know, access below the hood. Yeah. Well, Mike,
we're out of time. This was a pleasure. I learned a lot. If people want to follow you or your work,
where can they find you? I think probably easiest is Mikey K on X. Yeah. Thanks for joining Mike.
Great to see you, Dan.
So, do yourself a favor, hit like, smash subscribe and strap in for the ride of your life. And now,
without any further ado, let me just say, Dan, I'm absolutely hopelessly in love with you.
